---
title: Chora 0
date: 2016-09-05
---

    <p>A one-page zine of poems.</p>

<p><a href="/works/chora-0/chora-0.pdf">PDF for screen</a></p>

<embed width="600" height="500" src="/works/chora-0/chora-0.pdf" type="application/pdf"></embed>

<p><a href="/works/chora-0/chora-0-print-final.pdf">1-page print version</a><br></br>
(can be folded using <a href="https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Zine_Making/Putting_pages_together#An_8-sided_zine_from_1_sheet_with_1_cut">these instructions</a>)</p>

<hr></hr>
<p><a id="zine"></a></p>

<p>This zine is comprised of poems written from 2011 to 2013 (all before my transition). Most could use work, but I felt the urge to spill them out onto the riverbed and swim away.</p>

<h2 id="insect">Insect</h2>

<p>Crawling where wall meets ceiling:<br></br>
your sibling from the windowpane shone<br></br>
like a black seed spotted with red.<br></br>
If I crushed you, would you turn<br></br>
into cochineal, once-white braids churning<br></br>
in a bucket of silken entrails?</p>

<p>(When I fled the poem it remained, hovering<br></br>
just behind, papered over, luminous:<br></br>
The first time I nearly wept. And after that</p>

<h2 id="blanket">Blanket</h2>

<p>Gray skin covers the fused body,<br></br>
pockmarks resolving themselves<br></br>
as floral print. Under it, pressure<br></br>
which says, this is my flesh, that<br></br>
is your flesh, separable finally<br></br>
not by any act of the mind<br></br>
but through cruel proprioception,<br></br>
arriving with the dawn by which<br></br>
our skin was flensed.</p>

<p>Waking with a dead limb<br></br>
doesn’t frighten you anymore.<br></br>
Even if the blood refused<br></br>
to flow again, if the limb<br></br>
withered and was cut—<br></br>
at least some nights<br></br>
you’d forget what went missing,<br></br>
or dream how, like a starfish,<br></br>
you had grown it back.</p>

<h2 id="i-reach-out-for-you">I reach out for you</h2>

<p>in the shape of a laptop</p>

<p>light stains my hands and upper body</p>

<p>At the moment the rain stops there are still<br></br>
drops falling but no more will</p>

<p>follow — they cling to the red maple,<br></br>
seep into the soil, unattended</p>

<p>The silence does not break easily<br></br>
I open my window to moist air</p>

<p>Gutters burbling<br></br>
lines of glistening beads</p>

<p>Outside a woman describes a series of ex-<br></br>
lovers, each more pitiful than the last</p>

<p>Somewhere someone I do not know<br></br>
is writing the same poem</p>

<h2 id="winter-was-over-before">Winter was over before</h2>

<p>We knew it. The groundhog is wrong<br></br>
Sixty-one percent of the time.<br></br>
Here in this light-filled room,<br></br>
Forecasts could not predict<br></br>
A kiss, a failed liaison.<br></br>
I had forgotten — days.<br></br>
Days press on. Still the body knows<br></br>
It is spring. The eyes cannot<br></br>
Stop tearing. My skin<br></br>
Inflamed with pollen. Now<br></br>
This fresh-mown grass is trying to<br></br>
Impregnate me. Broadcast its seed<br></br>
Along the wind. When I lay down<br></br>
In its field for a time unmarked<br></br>
With shadow, I felt it seethe<br></br>
Beneath me, struggling to rise.<br></br>
Where I crushed it, it is growing<br></br>
Into my body, slowly.<br></br>
Red marks on my hands,<br></br>
Backs of my knees.</p>

<h2 id="jokkmokk">Jokkmokk</h2>

<p>Open your eyes: let the forest darkness<br></br>
rasp across them, the low gray fog<br></br>
spread its dim line, cutting off the trees<br></br>
at their roots, occulting the river,<br></br>
the shapes of islands… North<br></br>
of the Arctic Circle, summer light<br></br>
long gone, heavy black curtains<br></br>
folded unused in the hotel room.</p>

<p>Night fell who knew how long ago.<br></br>
We could not tell if the earth<br></br>
stayed pinned on its axis.<br></br>
In a subterranean place,<br></br>
within a dream,<br></br>
my body vivisected itself<br></br>
splaying outward like a flower.</p>

<h2 id="cold-out-tonight">Cold Out Tonight</h2>

<p>There can be no excuse for you<br></br>
however young, however beloved.<br></br>
Oh, you are graceless; you elbow<br></br>
him in the head with each slightest<br></br>
shifting of your slight body, making<br></br>
restless orbits like a distant moon.<br></br>
Prone to tremors as if of remorse.</p>

<p>Don’t hold the night<br></br>
responsible. It is not<br></br>
what kills them. It is not<br></br>
why blood turns sluggish and dark<br></br>
in the soft hollows under the eyes.</p>

<p>The crisis is always all around and just<br></br>
at bay. Come to bed, love. Cold out tonight.</p>

<h2 id="nbsp"> </h2>

<p>)</p>

  